_your zenodo badge here_

# lastname-etal_year_journal

**A long-term global energy-economic model of carbon dioxide release from fossil fuel use**

Eva Sinha1<sup>1\*</sup>, Katherine V. Calvin<sup>2</sup>, Page G. Kyle<sup>2</sup>, Mohamad I. Hejazi2<sup>2</sup>, Stephanie T. Waldhoff<sup>2</sup>, Maoyi Huang<sup>1</sup>, Srishti Vishwakarma<sup>3</sup>, and Xin Zhang<sup>3</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA, 99352, USA.
<sup>2 </sup> Joint Global Change Research Institute, College Park, MD, 20740, USA.
<sup>3 </sup> University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science, Frostburg, MD, 21532, USA

\* corresponding author:  eva.sinha@pnnl.gov

## Abstract
Since the 1950's, global fertilizer usage has increased by more than 800% resulting in detrimental impacts to the environment. The projected increase in crop production due to increasing demands for food, feed, biofuel, and other uses, may further increase fertilizer usage. Studies have examined achieving agricultural intensification in environmentally sustainable ways, however, they have not focused on the whole-system economic aspects of changes in fertilizer usage over the long term. We utilize the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM) to explore the impact of reducing global fertilizer usage on land use change, agricultural commodity price and production, energy production, and greenhouse gas emissions. We find that constrained fertilizer availability results in reduced global cropland area, particularly land used for bioenergy production, and expanded forested area. These results are driven by price impacts which lead to shifts in agricultural production between commodity types, regions, and technologies, and which lead to decreased agricultural commodity demands.


## Journal reference
Sinha, E., Calvin, K. V., Kyle, P. G., Hejazi, M. I., Waldhoff, S. T., Huang, M., et al. (2022). Implication of imposing fertilizer limitations on energy, agriculture, and land systems. Journal of Environmental Management, 305, 114391. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.114391


## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data
Reference for each minted data source for your input data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My input dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number

## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| model 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| model 2 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |
| component 1 | version | link to code repository | link to DOI dataset |

## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |
